Big bugs
----------------
Undo doesn't restore project title from previous load.
Master node framerate not displaying.
Need to stop building on first error.
Lockup when playing and interrupting in certain places.
If region in VWindow and CWindow is 100% it should follow the timeline length.
Autoplacement of new clips in AWindow doesn't work.
Hitting space rapidly locks up recording sometimes.
Drawing cache not cleared after recording.
Stop immediately followed by paste in CWindow locks up
Batch record lockup up after start near FileThread::get_buffer
Double click and drag item drags it but doesn't drop it.
An optimization error in GCC 3.3.2 causes RGB16 colormodels to crash.
 - Recompiling the cmodel files with just -O works.
Drag effect before timeline is finished drawing after a load -> lockup



playlist.xml not playing all the way through



Small bugs
----------------
List problems:
	Click drag doesn't drag selection over sublists.
	First column text not indented in sublist.
	Shift dragging to create multiple selections doesn't handle crossing over center of selection.
	Vertical range not recalculated when expanding or collapsing rows.



Big Features
----------------
Test pull console with LAD.
Signal handling for non interactive rendering.
Compressor using readahead buffer.
Sound level using readahead buffer.
Batch render from command line.
hourglass
remote control in Video In
color curves
hide cursor when over video output
SUV theme
Asset searches.
Asset organization in subfolders.
Field based reverse video.
Motion compensation and tracking.
Zoomblur transition
Zoom transition






Small Features
-----------------
left and right arrow in track title







Not going to happen
---------------------
Hide controls in Record Monitor
Time domain pitch shift
File sequence testing.
Drag plugin handle should only affect plugins with matching handles.
Independant record options for plugin sets.








Patches
--------------------
koen muylkens <koen.muylkens@esat.kuleuven.ac.be>
newskin-cinelerra.diff



Andraz Tori:
masks_fixes.diff

Fixes are:
- when adding a point to the mask by just clicking and not dragging,
mask is not rerendered (changes to cwindowgui.C)
- when working with autokeyframes enabled with masks. If you have
keyframe A at position 0 and keyframe B at position 100, when you
would
like to edit mask at position 50 and you add a new point or move
previous one, the whole mask at position 50 snaps back to the position
as specified in keyframe A (all changes except to cwindowgui.C)

the first fix is pretty obvious, just rerendering was mising in a
codepath

the second one is more deep-trough, since it adds missing
functionality
to auto.h/C ... when autocreating keyframe, keyframe should be
interpolated from frame before and after it (if they exist).

masks_fixes.diff

if there is more than one mask, they all have to be counted
in order to figure y-bounding interval for redraw.

maskengine4_fix.diff

plugindialog_fix.diff - already done

If there are only two video tracks, and one has a shared track effect
from the other. and the other is deleted. cinelerra crushes.

shared_track_deletion_crush.diff











Not reproducible
----------------------
Quit freezes when background rendering is on.
 - No quit during slow effect with background rendering.
 - Not reproducible.
Delete track which is being shared causes crash.
 - not reproducible
Crash during failure to open output file for rendering.
Dissolve transition quirks.
Deadlock when CWindow handles events during load.





Redo plugin keyframes.
Paste from load file after recording doesn't work.
Changing channel count -> crash
Close out of RecordGUI before firewire signal starts -> crash

In/Out shifting locks up sometimes.
 - More reproducable if building index of AC3 file
Lockup of APatchPan if GUI is updated after every event and pan keyframes are visible.
Plugin server locks up in sync_parameters when show plugin keyframes is on.
Effect tweeking locks up if the time taken to render it is really long.






B
-----------
Advancemame/scale2x filter
Fourier with window size less than fragment size crashed.
Moving icons in AWindow should reorder the contents in memory.
Changes_made not set after tweek.
Video playback not turned off after rendering.
Denoise from mjpeg tools.
Effects from audacity.
Shift matching surrounding keyframes.
Popup in CWindow and VWindow to set maximum preview size.
Shared effect resolution when pasting to different tracks than source EDL.
Doesn't support window managers with user placement of windows.
Compressor stops after 30 minutes.
Compressor non-functional.
Remember Asset list position.
More crash recovery in record.
Lockup during channel change using RecordMonitor and BUZ driver.
Ignore frames which return errors when monitoring recording.
Color adjustments in Channel picker are thrown away when using Buz.
Preferences crash after changing Playback device to Buz.
Either audio or video plays back in Microsoft Media Player but not both.








On hold
--------------
Effect editing.
Paste non realtime plugins leading to a dialog box.
Elimination of Audio and Video menus.
